DOCS-10508-jms-on-newmessage-operation-kt (#1388)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: jms/1.7/modules/ROOT/pages/jms-listener.adoc

> = Listen New Messages Using the JMS Connector Examples

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Listen for New Messages Using the JMS Connector Examples
```

:keywords: jms, connector, consume, message, source, listener
:page-aliases: connectors::jms/jms-listener.adoc

> Anypoint Connector for JMS (JMS Connector) *On New Message* source enables you to listen and consume new messages as they arrive to the specified destination.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Anypoint Connector for JMS (JMS Connector) *On New Message* source enables you to listen for and consume new messages as they arrive at the specified destination.
```

== Listen for New Messages from a Queue

> In the following example, you configure the *On New Message* source to listen for new messages in the queue specified in the *Destination* field. The operation returns a Mule Message each time a JMS message is available in the queue. The Mule Message has:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following example, you configure the *On New Message* source to listen for new messages in the queue specified in the *Destination* field. The operation returns a Mule message each time a JMS message is available in the queue. The Mule message consists of:
```

> * The message's content as payload

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The message content as payload
```

> * The message's metadata in the message attributes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The message metadata in the message attributes
```

> By default, the message consumed will be acknowledged (ACKed) only when the execution of the flow receiving the message completes successfully. If instead, an error occurs during the execution of the flow, the session recovers, and the message is redelivered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the message consumed is acknowledged ("ACKed") only when the execution of the flow receiving the message completes successfully. If not, the session recovers and the message is redelivered.
```
Do we have to document "ACKed"? We want to avoid turning syntax values into common verbs....

To configure the source in Studio, follow these steps:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, select *JMS > On New Message*.
. Drag *On New Message* to the Studio canvas.
. In the *On New Message* configuration screen, optionally change the value of the *Display Name* field.

> . In the *On New Message* configuration screen, in *Destination*, specify the name of the destination from where to consume the message for example `#[vars.destination]`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *On New Message* configuration screen, in *Destination*, specify the name of the destination from which to consume the message, for example, `#[vars.destination]`:
```

.JMS Connector On New Message on Queue configuration
image::jms-onnewmessage-queue.png[In the On New Message source screen, set the Destination field to the name of the destination from where to consume the message]

In the XML editor, the `<jms:listener>` configuration looks like this:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<jms:listener config-ref="config" destination="#[vars.destination]"/>
----

== Listen for New Messages from a Topic Subscription

In the following example, you configure the *On New Message* source to listen for new messages from a topic subscription by setting the *Consumer type* field to *Topic consumer*.

To configure the source in Studio, follow these steps:

. In the *Mule Palette* view, select *JMS > On New Message*.
. Drag *On New Message* to the Studio canvas.
. In the *On New Message* configuration screen, optionally change the value of the *Display Name* field.

> . In the *On New Message* configuration screen, in *Destination*, specify the name of the destination from where to consume the message for example `#[vars.destination]`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the *On New Message* configuration screen, in *Destination*, specify the name of the destination from which to consume the message for example `#[vars.destination]`.
```

Reviewer: I actually looked this up, because I had never heard "in where" used. It seems to be either something that sounds better to a native US English-speaker's ear, or "in where" is never used but "where" (vs. "in which") is.
It might be easiest just to take my word for it...lol....

> . Set the *Consumer type* field to *Topic consumer*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Set the *Consumer type* field to *Topic consumer*:
```

.JMS Connector On New Message on Topic subscription configuration
image::jms-onnewmessage-topic.png[In the On New Message source screen, set the Destination field and the Consumer Type field to Topic consumer]

In the XML editor, the `<jms:listener>` and `<jms:topic-consumer/>` configuration looks like this:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<jms:listener config-ref="JMS_config" destination="#[vars.destination]">
    <jms:consumer-type>
        <jms:topic-consumer/>
    </jms:consumer-type>
</jms:listener>
----

> == Filter Incoming messages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Filter Incoming Messages
```

> JMS Connector supports filtering messages to consume based on the standard JMS selector language you specify in the *Selector* field of the *On New Message* source. You receive only the messages matching the selector language, ignoring any other messages in the destination.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
JMS Connector supports filtering messages to consume based on the standard JMS selector language you specify in the *Selector* field of the *On New Message* source. By doing so, you receive only the messages matching the selector language, ignoring any other messages in the destination.
```

> In the following example, you configure a priority queue to process messages faster than others:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following example, you configure a priority queue that processes messages faster than other queues:
```

. In Studio, select the *On New Message* source from your flow.
. Set the *Destination* field to `openTickets`.

> . Set the *Selector* field to `JMSPriority=8`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Set the *Selector* field to `JMSPriority=8`:
```

</flow>
----

== Reply to Incoming Messages

> When an incoming JMS message declares a `ReplyTo` header destination and the message is processed successfully without any error during the flow execution, the *On New Message* source automatically produces a response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When an incoming JMS message declares a `ReplyTo` header destination and the message is processed without errors, the *On New Message* source automatically produces a response, and the connector publishes the response to the destination specified in the *Destination* field.
```

> In that case, when the flow completes the connector publishes the response to the destination specified in the *Destination* field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> In the following example, you configure the response message section of the operation. All these configurations impact the outbound message:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following example, you configure the response message section of the operation:
```
I think that configuring the response message includes the assumption of impacting the outbound/response message?

. In Studio, select the *On New Message* source from your flow.
. In the *Response* section, set the *Ignore Jms replyTo Header* to *True*, which disables the automatic reply.
. Set the *Body* field to `'Message received was: ' ++ payload`.
. Set the *User Properties* field to `{'processedAt': now}`.
. Set the *Persistent delivery* to *True*.
. Set the *Priority* field to `8`.

.JMS Connector On New Message Response configuration
image::jms-onnewmessage-response.png[In the On New Message source screen, configure the Response section fields]

In the XML editor, the `ignoreReplyTo`, `body`, `properties`, `persistentDelivery`, and `priority` configurations looks like this:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<jms:listener config-ref="config" destination="#[vars.destination]">
  <jms:response priority="8" persistentDelivery="true" ignoreReplyTo="true">
      <jms:body>#['Message received was: ' ++ payload]</jms:body>
      <jms:properties>#[{'processedAt': now}]</jms:properties>
  </jms:response>
</jms:listener>
----

== Configure the Number of Consumers

> When extra processing power is needed, configure in the *Number of consumers* field the number of consumers that the *On New Message* source uses to consume messages concurrently. +

Reviewer: active voice?
```suggestion
When you need extra processing power, configure the *Number of consumers* field to the number of consumers that the *On New Message* source uses to consume messages concurrently. +
```

> By default, each source uses `4` consumers that produce messages concurrently. Each consumer waits for the message to be processed, which means that you have a maximum of `4` messages in-flight at the same time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, each source is configured to enable `4` consumers to produce messages concurrently. Each consumer waits for the message to be processed, which means that you have a maximum of `4` messages being produced at the same time.
```
I'm not sure that I understand "Each consumer waits for the message to be processed." Does this mean that each consumer waits for all four messages to be processed? Waiting for what; what is being delayed by the wait?

In the following example, you increase the number of consumers in the source:

. In Studio, select the *On New Message* source from your flow.

> . Set the *Number of consumers* field to a number of concurrent consumers that receives the JMS messages, for example, `6`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Increase the *Number of consumers* field from `4` to the number of concurrent consumers that you want to receive the JMS messages, for example, `6`:
```

.JMS Connector On New Message Number of Consumers
image::jms-onnewmessage-consumers.png[In the On New Message source screen, set the Number of consumers field to a number of concurrent consumers]

In the XML editor, the `numberOfConsumers` configuration looks like this:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<jms:listener doc:name="On New Message" destination="#[vars.destination]" numberOfConsumers="6"/>
----

== Configure Mime Types and Encoding

> JMS Connector determines a message’s mime type (`contentType`) based on the `MM_MESSAGE_CONTENT_TYPE` property. However, when you need to manage the message's content, configure the *Inbound Content-Type* field to the particular content type value you desire. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
JMS Connector determines a message’s mime type (`contentType`) based on the `MM_MESSAGE_CONTENT_TYPE` property. However, when you must manage the message's content, configure the *Inbound Content-Type* field to the particular content type value you need. +
```

> By default, JMS Connector assumes that Mule runtime engine default encoding matches the one in the message if no other information is provided. Use the *Inbound Encoding* field to configure the encoding.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, JMS Connector assumes that Mule runtime engine default encoding matches the encoding in the message. Use the *Inbound Encoding* field to configure a different type of encoding.
```
